              Alerts in Selenium Python

An Alert or Prompt or Confirm popup on the web page
used to get the attention of the user to perform some operation
on the alert or the web page;
sometimes alerts expect input from the user.

All the alerts are formed using javascript inside the HTML page;
there are three kinds of alerts in HTML:

1. Simple Alert ('OK' button)
2. Confirmation Alert ('OK' button, 'Cancel' button)
3. Prompt Alert (text box, 'Ok' button, 'Cancel' button)

Purpose of simple alert is to give some information or warning to the user.
Purpose of confirm alert is to take permission from the user before doing something.
Purpose of prompt alert is to take some input from the user.



                Handle Alert & Popups In Selenium Python

1. First we need to switch or transfer the control to alert pop-up before doing any operations.

driver.switch_to.alert

After the control has moved to Alert pop-up,
we can do different actions on it using available methods.

2.   a) Handling a Simple Alert

     alert.accept() – will click on 'OK' button
     alert.dismiss() – will click on 'Cancel' button
     alert.text – will get the text which is present on the Alert

     b) Handling a Confirmation Alert

     click on the ‘OK’ button to accept it
     or ‘Cancel’ button to dismiss it.

     This alert also has same properties as in Alert – accept(), dismiss(), text:

     alert.accept() – will click on 'OK' button
     alert.dismiss() – will click on 'Cancel' button
     alert.text – will get the text which is present on the Alert

     c) Handling a Prompt Alert

     user enters any value in text box and
     clicks on the ‘OK’ button to accept,
     ‘Cancel’ button to dismiss the pop-up.
     This pop-up supports one more method - send_keys()
     along with - accept(), dismiss(), text:

     alert.send_keys('Some text to send') - will send the text
     alert.accept() – will click on 'OK' button
     alert.dismiss() – will click on 'Cancel' button
     alert.text – will get the text which is present on the Alert

3. Fourth Type

Apart from these three types, there are other popups generated by web page.
It is easy to handle these pop-ups as they are generated by html code
and we can find it’s element locator;
And do not support accept() or dismiss() methods which is only available for browser native pop-ups.

When you try to switch to alert on display of these popups,
you get NoAlertPresentException.
Because they are not alerts.
(selenium.common.exceptions.NoAlertPresentException: Message: no such alert)